---
title: "Composite Localization for Human Pose Estimation"
collection: pre-print
permalink: /publication/2021-05-15-clnet
excerpt: 'This work proposes composite localization framework for human pose estimation by dividing the complex learning objective into two simpler ones.'
date: 2021-05-15
venue: 'arXiv'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.07245.pdf'
citation: 'Chen, ZiFan, et al. "Composite Localization for Human Pose Estimation." arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.07245 (2021).'
---
**Zifan Chen**, Jie Zhao, Hao Yu, Yue Zhang, Li Zhang

Accurate and efficient lumbar spine disease identification is crucial for clinical diagnosis. However, existing deep learning models with millions of parameters often fail to learn with only hundreds or dozens of medical images. These models also ignore the contextual relationship between adjacent objects, such as between vertebras and intervertebral discs. This work introduces a multi-scale context-guided network with coarse-to-fine localization and classification, named CCF-Net, for lumbar spine disease identification. Specifically, in learning, we divide the localization objective into two parallel tasks, coarse and fine, which are more straightforward and effectively reduce the number of parameters and computational cost. The experimental results show that the coarse-to-fine design presents the potential to achieve high performance with fewer parameters and data requirements. Moreover, the multi-scale context-guided module can significantly improve the performance by 6.45% and 5.51% with ResNet18 and ResNet50, respectively. Our code is available at this https URL.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.07245.pdf)

[Download code here](https://github.com/czifan/CCFNet.pytorch)

Chen, ZiFan, et al. "Composite Localization for Human Pose Estimation." arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.07245 (2021).

